[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Today on "Cosmic Disclosure,"
we are with Richard Doty,
a retired counterintelligence
agent who served in the Air
Force Office of
Special Investigations.
Also joining us is
Tim, a tactical advisor
to covert analysts trying
to understand the missions
and strategies of nonhuman
intelligences on our planet.
Welcome, gentlemen.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you, Emery.
>> Rick, on another show,
you said there will be no
disclosure.
You said it doesn't
serve anyone's interest
to have an open disclosure.
What did you mean by that?
>> Well, there's so much
complexity to a disclosure
program.
First of all, there's so
many different entities
within the Department of
Defense and other agencies
within US government.
They would have to compile
all their information together
in one pot, so to speak,
and then release it,
and they're not going to do it.
Right now, the United States
Space Force, the newest branch
of our military, is not
cooperating with the disclosure
program.
The United States Air
Force, although they
say that they could,
there's a lot of information
that they acknowledge that they
can't disclose to the public.
>> And whose call is that?
Why is that with
the Space Force?
>> Well, Space Force, they
have so much on their program.
A special access program is
a highly classified project.
I mean, it could be 20 projects
into one and one program
that deals with technology,
advanced technology,
reverse technology.
And also, it could show what
crafts that we've photographed
coming into our atmosphere,
what crafts have landed,
what we've done as far
as retrieval programs.
There's so many
different programs.
There's literally hundreds, and
some of them go back to 1947.
Although, we didn't have
an Air Force in 1947.
That was the Army Air Force.
But all those files were
switched over to the Air Force.
And when the Air Force
left the program,
so to speak, in 1969 after
the Condon Report came out,
they tried to look for
some other agency that
wanted to take it.
DIA, a relatively
new agency that
came into existence in 1961,
raised their hand and said,
we'll take it.
They wanted a mission.
So now the DIA is
involved in this.
They have thousands
and thousands
of archival files
pertaining to UFOs.
How are the United
States government
going to put this all
together for a disclosure?
Right now, they're talking
about disclosures, but only
recent information
about disclosure.
That's trying to
solve an algebra
problem with eighth grade math.
>> Right.
>> It's not going to work.
>> What do you think, Tim?
Do you agree or
disagree with that?
>> Their only advantage
is to transparency.
I think a civilization that
wants to proceed and make
progress is in a direct need of
transparency and cooperation,
so I personally can only see
benefits from making everything
as public as possible.
And I think that
the current trend
shows that people
more and more agree
to that, which means the
possibility of having
an open system, the
possibility of having trade
deals with other civilizations,
the possibilities
for the whole planet, but also
for the power structure itself
and those who lead it.
>> Another problem we have
is the government would have
to come out and admit that they
disinformed people since 1947,
probably even before that.
I don't know what we
actually knew before that.
I only know what we
knew up from Roswell on.
And they're going
to have to disclose
to the public information
about religion
that the ETs have given us
that could affect society.
So there's a lot of things
within this disclosure program
that would not be so
beneficial to the public
or nor to the government.
They certainly wouldn't release
a research and development
on reverse engineering.
>> Right.
Why can't they admit
about the ETs and UFOs?
I mean, this is
the whole question.
They could have been open to
the public the whole time.
Is it just because of
the reverse engineering
and the technology?
>> Well, human beings
are very curious.
If you start talking
about one particular area,
they're smart enough to ask a
million questions about that.
So if we just
released information
that, yes, we did
have contact in 1947,
we've had contact since.
They provided us
some information.
They visited Earth.
Different species of
them have visited Earth.
That's going to
open a Pandora's box
because now the public wants
to know every single thing
that they've provided to us,
and a lot of that information
we can't provide back.
>> Well, who's in charge of the
technologies that are derived
from these UAPs?
>> Well, the government
has DARPA, number one.
They're doing the
reverse engineering.
Number two, the
particular agency
within the Department of Defense
is who would utilize that.
But the problem we have
here is contractors.
Civilian contractors--
>> It's funneled out
to these corporations.
>> Exactly.
The information and the
technology to analyze
is filtered out to
Honeywell and Grumman--
>> Raytheon.
>> Raytheon, Lockheed--
>> Sure.
>> Martin Marietta, Skunk Works,
and they don't have to share
that.
A lot of people don't realize
that the FOIA law, Title V
United States Code
Freedom of Information Act
only pertains to
governmental agencies.
It doesn't pertain to
civilian contractors.
So you can't submit
a FOIA request
to Honeywell, or to Raytheon,
or to Tektronix, or Johnsons
Systems and get information
about reverse engineering.
>> And who's in charge of the
messaging of this narrative
of what's being told?
>> That's a good question.
Who is?
Who's in charge?
>> How many are
involved with that?
>> Exactly.
How many?
There's so many different
entities, as I said earlier.
Who's actually in charge?
And most people would say,
well, the president is.
I don't think the
president would.
He's a temporary employee of
the United States government.
There's such a thing as the
advanced operations working
groups, which we understand
took over for MJ-12.
That entity, it's
not a different--
it's not a particular agency.
It's just an entity within the
government, a quasi division
or a branch of our government.
They're actually
the ones that are
dictating policy and procedures
at this present time.
And I would think that
they would probably
dictate how
disclosure would begin
and the administrative process
of getting that disclosure out.
>> So the question about
disclosure goes actually way
back because the possibility
and the question about when,
how has always
existed from 1947 on.
It worked for quite some time
to make everything a secret.
But say about 15 years
ago, the discussion
got more and more
into the direction
of how can we disclose
some of the stuff
because the reasons for
disclosure more and more turned
to the direction of it
is beneficial, maybe even
needed to do so, in
order to rearrange
the whole global
system in some way
that it's effectively fit into
the situation of an open world
scenario.
>> Tim, is that a collective
group around the world,
or you're specifically talking
about a specific country
or agency?
>> Well, we've got to
go back in time then.
We have to see what is
history, what happened,
and what situation do we have?
We have a situation where,
at least in the '80s,
'90s, the USA, United
States of America,
weren't the only
country anymore that had
extensive knowledge about UFOs.
At the time of the '90s,
there were a couple
of countries, private
contractors all
around the globe, but
also powerful families
and certain other groups
had extensive knowledge
about what's going on.
And each and every one of them,
if they had the resources,
they created their own
fleet of their own group.
Rick said it correctly.
Look at how many key players
you have only in this country.
CIA, DIA, and many,
many, many more.
And now think that there are
more than the United States.
There are other
countries that might have
the same situation going on.
So there was an effort
mainly started by--
the United States
Navy was pretty much
one of them who pushed
the effort to bring people
together.
And the way I
understand it, there
were some very intense meetings
of certain representatives
of military brands, countries,
groups, companies, and so on.
And what then happened,
because, of course, they
had their agendas and they were
fighting it in these meetings--
actually, the governments,
which then is the next in line,
wrote certain exit strategies,
how to move from one situation
to the other.
So a lot of people,
tactical advisors
wrote stuff and gave these
papers into those meetings,
and those people
then arranged how
disclosure is going to look,
and that's currently going on.
>> Why is disclosure
such a polarizing topic?
>> Well, something that
Tim just mentioned,
there's so many different
hands in the pot, so to speak.
One of the things that
you do in intelligence--
positive intelligence--
there's different types
of intelligence-- positive,
counterintelligence,
counterespionage.
One of the things you
look at is something
we call essential
elements of information.
What do we want
from our enemies?
And one of the top priorities
during the late '70s
and early '80s, at
least when I was in,
was information
about UFO programs.
That was a highly classified
entity within the EEIs.
So we would task our spies
within the Soviet Union,
within East Germany back
then, Czechoslovakia
and other countries,
and even China,
for that type of information.
We also, our friends, our German
friends, West German friends
or the Italians and the
French, the South Africans, we
knew they were all involved
in the same program.
Sometimes it was easier to
get information from our spies
inside the Soviet
Union than it was
for something that was
being closely hidden
within the West
German government
or the French government.
I mean, they got something.
They have information about
UFOs, about ET contacts,
and they want to analyze it
first before they share it
with the Americans.
And we knew they had it.
We knew it, but we
couldn't always share it.
And we didn't conduct covert
or clandestine operations
against our friends.
They're our friends, and
we were waiting for them
to open their hands and give
us what they know about UFOs.
That doesn't always happen.
>> Right.
Are there different
branches of our military
that are on the
same page with this
when it comes to disclosure, or
are they all separated there?
>> Well, the Navy is more
open about the subject,
especially after the USS Nimitz
incident and USS Roosevelt
incident, and there's been
some other incidents that just
recently within the last few
months have been disclosed
by the Navy about fighter
planes encountering UAPs over
a particular area.
So the Navy is
probably more open.
>> They seem to be the
most advanced, too,
out of all the branches when
it comes to reverse engineered
craft and keeping the
secrets of the UFOs.
>> Right.
Each branch has their own
research and development
because they have a particular
mission within the Department
of Defense.
The Navy patrols the seas,
the skies out at the seas.
The Air Force patrols
the United States.
They protect the United
States, and the US Space Force
is protecting Earth, at
least our part of the Earth.
So everybody has their own
research and development
projects.
Probably the costliest
is the Air Force
because they're dealing
with advanced technology
and planes, weapon systems.
The Space Force, they
have 1,600 satellites
that they have to
control that we know of,
and then there's
probably 2 to 400
more that we don't know of
that are in classified missions
up there that are
controlled by other entities
within the government, some
that are even classified.
There's actually agencies--
two agencies as I'm thinking--
I'm not going to name
them-- that are classified.
I mean, they are elements
of the government.
They call themselves
elements of the government,
and they control certain
aspects of our space program.
The National Reconnaissance
Office we know about
because it's been publicized.
Within that realm, there's two
agencies that control things.
One--
>> So they're below the NRO?
>> They're below the NRO.
One of them used to be
the Defense Communications
Agency, the DCA, and
they dealt with all
the ground-based
satellite, the collection
of signals coming from
other-- but another agency
took that over.
So to answer your
question, the Navy and Army
are primarily on the list.
I would say probably
the Navy's number one,
the Air Force is number two.
I don't believe the
Army is involved in much
except for strategy to defend
the ground-based assets
against some kind
of invasion force.
And then the Marines would
follow that particular scenario
too.
>> With all the
compartmentalized agencies that
are out there, Rick, is there
one group or agency that kind
of heads the whole thing up?
>> I would say--
and I don't know
this for a fact,
but I would guess to say that--
>> Your opinion.
>> The old MJ-12 group that's
been out there for many years
and it's been pretty much
verified that it existed,
as it changed their
names over the years--
and I believe now they're called
the Advanced Operations Working
Group, the AOWG.
And I think they're
probably the ones that would
be controlling most of this.
>> Let's clarify, too, that it
is not just 12 people sitting
in the corner.
We're talking
about-- it's probably
made up of maybe
corporations and agencies
and a group of leaders.
>> Exactly what I was going
to say is this is not just one
person, or there's
not just 12 people,
like MJ-12 allegedly
contained just 12 people.
It's a conglomerate of groups,
including private contractors,
military, particular military
branches, and divisions
within a certain military
that would be controlling.
Because it's complex.
You can't have one
person making decisions
that would affect every
branch of the government,
military branches of the
DOD, Department of Defense,
the intelligence agencies,
and other agencies
within the government.
There would have to be some kind
of agreement and group settings
because one particular entity
couldn't dictate everything
within the United States
government of what
they want to do.
That's why I say it's
like a Pandora's box.
I don't know how
they would do that.
I wish I knew.
I mean, I wish I would be in
a position to know all this.
But it's not just
the United States.
It's Germany, Europe.
The European Union
has the same thing.
It's the same problem.
>> What do you think, Tim?
What's the group or
individual group out there
you think is
heading this all up?
>> It seems to be visually
appealing to people to imagine
that power structure is
functioning in a way that
there's something on top of it,
like one thing concentrates all
the power.
But in reality, we see that
agendas and key players
are so diverse and there
are so many of them
that it's more or less a
kind of a dynamic process.
So someone is at the top
for some period of time
but gets replaced.
And the more key
players you have,
the greater those dynamics are.
So the greatest
balancing acts that we
have to do is not only bringing
all those people together
on one table, but also
arranging some kind of plan
where everyone can agree
upon it for a mutually
beneficial situation, and
that is the real challenge.
>> So with all the clandestine
agencies out here that have
the ability in the United States
to reverse engineer downed
craft and things like this,
maybe we do have these
treaties.
Maybe we have these agreements.
What about the other countries
out there, China and Europe?
Do they have agreements
where they're
allowed to keep downed craft
and exchange technologies
and reverse engineering it?
Have you heard
anything like this?
>> Yes.
>> Well, I can tell you
that during my time in--
we knew the Soviet Union,
because it was Soviet Union
during my time period, they had
a number of Roswell incidents
dating back to the '50s--
early '50s.
And the biggest one
was in '67, '68.
They released a film about it.
They found a craft out in the
middle of a particular area
of Soviet Union.
One of the things that
the Soviets did was they
kept everything secret.
Everything compartmentalized
and kept that secret.
Even today-- and there's
been scientific expeditions
after the Soviet Union
fell and became Russia,
and Russia is not giving up
any information about it.
I don't know about China.
I don't have much information
about what's happened in China.
I was never briefed
in anything like that.
One of the things that--
South America-- we have
great working relationships
with Brazil, Argentina.
When a craft crashes
down there, they
call us because they don't
know what to do with it.
>> Right.
>> Chile, Colombia had a
craft, and even Costa Rica off
the coast that we went down
there and recovered for them.
But around Europe,
I think Tim would
have to be the expert on that.
>> Yeah, so basically
we know that Russia has,
after the United
States of America,
the longest history
on UFO topics.
They basically have
a huge Space Force
as the United States
of America as well.
But we also have-- and we
need to keep that in mind-- we
have some smaller countries that
also have certain incidents,
and they found something,
and they build something.
So if you're thinking
about Africa, for example,
they don't have the
resources to build something
like a huge brand, like the
United States of America,
who has biggest military
budget in the whole world,
more than other
countries combined.
What they did, for example,
is they reached out
to other African
countries, and they
got their resources piled
up and did what they could.
Then you have certain families
and other influential groups
on this planet who might have
enough resources to research
certain things.
So that's basically, I
guess, the differences
in the countries.
>> I think it would be
almost impossible for one--
>> Right.
>> One entity, one person
on Earth that could speak
for everyone else.
We have the United Nations,
but they don't do a whole lot.
And I know in 2017, with ATIP
when that story came out,
there were a number of
speeches given at the General
Assembly at the United
Nations about what
the number of countries
being interested--
Israel made a speech,
South Africa made a speech,
Turkey made a great
presentation and hinted
that they knew what the
subject was and knew something
about it, but they
never explained it.
So like Tim said, there's
smaller countries.
I'm sure Turkey probably has
had some kind of UFO incident
that they haven't revealed yet.
Maybe our US intelligence
knows about it
or German BND knows about
it or some other agency
knows about it.
There are certain countries that
do things better than others.
The Central Intelligence
Agency, although they're
the biggest intelligence
agency in the world,
they don't always do things
as good as the [GERMAN],, which
is the German BND or the
German equivalent of the CIA.
There were a lot of times that
when I worked in intelligence,
we would rely on BND
to gather something
for us that we couldn't gather.
That's the same with
Israeli intelligence.
They're probably one of the
most covert operating teams
in the world and
they do it great.
And when we're dealing
with a subject of UFOs,
there's so many
different countries
when you ask them about,
OK, what do you know,
their mouths shut immediately.
Meaning that they may
have something little
and they don't want
to disclose it to us.
But there's another
example I have.
When I was at Area 51,
they brought in some people
from other countries.
Germany-- they
brought in a scientist
from [GERMAN],, which is the
communications-- probably
the equivalent to Motorola
in the United States.
They were experts
in communications,
radio communications
and things like that.
And this is in the '80s.
They were given access
to some information
about some advanced
communications
that we got from the ETs.
So we did share some things with
[GERMAN],, but only narrowly,
compartmented, dealing
with one specific thing,
and that was communications.
>> Are there specific
extraterrestrial species out
there that are aligned
specifically for certain
countries?
>> So what we've seen is that
certain ET intelligence try
their best in order to
balance out certain--
>> Like stay neutral?
>> Well, do they stay neutral
by acting, I wouldn't say so.
I would say that they
try their best in order
to find a kind of balance to
the situation going on globally.
So if we go back
in time, then we
know that Germany
in the World War II,
they developed
certain technology.
They had extensive
research programs
and were looking
into the material.
So we know 1947,
Operation Highjump,
something came up
from Antarctica,
something described as
a disk-shaped object.
A lot of indications that this
could be German technology.
We've seen the incident
in Washington--
might be in the '50s, I guess?
>> '52.
>> '52?
Right.
So there are, again, there
are indications that this
might be German as well.
So basically until
1947, Germany,
meaning the World
War II Germany,
was the only country that seemed
to have had certain technology.
We assume that the so-called
Roswell crash wasn't
a real crash but was
started or forced
so that the United
States of America
could get their hands
on certain technology
to balance out the situation.
>> Oh, I see.
>> Right.
So what do we know?
I know you have done some
research on the Roswell
incident, and the
official theory
was that there's a
thunderstorm going on.
But later on, we
learned that there
are some ETs that can indeed
manipulate weather and use
certain concentrated energy
beams that might look natural
but might be more like a weapon.
Because if we see the
Ebens visited this planet
for thousands of years.
So they had advanced technology,
they know the terrain,
they know the weather.
It's kind of unlikely
that a thunderstorm
could bring them down, which
hasn't happened ever before.
So there is this theory that
another species we know of
could have brought
them down and made
it look naturally so that
the United States could get
their hands on-- and certainly,
the same things happened
in Russia and later on in
different other countries.
So it basically
happened the same way
the distribution of the
nuclear bomb was done.
The United States of
America had it first,
and then Russia, and
suddenly some other places,
this technology appeared as
well and that kept peace.
>> So there's a narrative of
a threat that we hear about
the UAP phenomena.
Now, do you believe
there's a threat from them?
>> Yes, I do.
>> OK.
>> I believed everything that
was presented to President
Reagan back in 1981.
Caspar Weinberger, he believed
it back in the early '70s.
He so mentioned it
and wrote about it.
I think there was a
threat at that time,
and I think probably there
is still a threat now.
If I was able to get into
every particular filing
cabinet in the Pentagon that
dealt with this subject,
I think you'd find or I
would find information
about a threat posed against us.
Because we're spending
billions of dollars on
advanced weaponry right now.
Right now, we have-- and I'm not
going to go to great detail--
but I know we have some
very advanced weapons that's
not going to be used
against a country.
It was going to be
used against something
else, some other entity,
and that other entity
is going to be something
coming from outer space.
Now, I also believe
that most of the ETs,
at least that I
knew existed back
in the '80s-- '70s and '80s--
were benevolent.
They weren't here to harm us.
But there are some, at least one
particular one, that came here,
and for some reason,
they want to conquer
or there was some
sort of a threat.
>> When the government
rebranded the UFO to UAPs,
it's basically they're
saying it is a threat.
This is the narrative they've
been giving us for a while now.
Is there a threat
out there, Rick?
>> Yes, there is.
I believe that there
is a threat out there.
And I think if you look at and
speak with the intelligence
officers that I have
and military people
that are still within the
government and a lot of them
that have retired, the first
thing they'll talk about
is the threat.
As Tim talked about, the
hostile, the aggressive ETs
that had come here.
One of the things that we
as humans don't understand
is that we can't understand
what their thinking is.
We can't understand their plans.
They're a different species.
They're biologically
different than us.
Their brains are
Their thinkings are different.
The rationale is different.
So to sit there
and say, well, they
came here to do a particular--
are they dangerous?
Yeah, because
they've shown danger.
I can talk about probably--
>> What have they shown that
makes them dangerous, Rick?
>> Well, I could talk about five
different incidents involving
aggressive actions that ETs
have taken towards United States
airplanes, civilians
driving around in a vehicle,
abductions, and disappearances.
One of the things that people
don't connect the UAP phenomena
with is the disappearance
of millions of people
around the Earth every year.
>> Absolutely.
>> I mean, there's just an
enormous amount of people go
missing in particular areas
such as Alaska, Oregon,
and Southern Washington
State, Northern California.
I can go on and on.
>> No one talks about
it, though, Rick,
and no one correlates the two.
Why?
>> Because I'm even
hesitant about it.
I mean, I know a lot about that,
but it's kind of a scary topic.
I mean, I don't want to leave
anybody on a cliffhanger here,
but I don't want to talk
about that because there's
a lot of things so scary.
And then there's the unknown.
We don't know what
they're doing.
We don't know where are
they taking these people.
We don't know for a fact
they did, although there's
numerous cases
where people, police
officers, military
people seen this occur,
that actually witnessed
humans being taken missing
and they've never showed up.
So would I consider
that a threat?
Absolutely a threat.
Now, another thing
about the name--
during my time period, we
had UFOs, Unidentified Flying
Object.
Then classification-wise, we had
Identified Alien Craft, IACs.
We knew this
particular craft are
flown by this particular
species of ETs,
so they were
identified alien craft.
Unidentified Alien Craft we had.
UAP wasn't even
in our vocabulary
back in the '70s and '80s.
It was developed by one
particular person created
this, who you see on TV now
talking about the phenomena.
And they're pushing
for disclosure
because they
consider it a threat.
Harry Reid was-- the late Harry
Reid was doing the same thing.
The problem there
is, they don't want
to go back and talk about the
real threat that occurred back
in history.
They don't want to
talk historically.
That turns off
hundreds and maybe even
thousands of military and
intelligence officers.
They walk away from it.
My group, they didn't want any
part of this new disclosure
program because you're not
going to disclose everything.
And then, of course,
the people, the American
Society, because we--
and I have to be--
I'm guilty of this-- we have
disinformed the American people
over the years on
different things
and different
disinformation campaigns.
So who are they going to trust?
Are they going to
trust the government?
Probably not.
>> What do you think, Tim?
>> Many people could say if
something is about to happen,
it would have already
happened by now.
And I would reply
that, yes, there
is no major threat
happening in the way
that it threatens the
existence of this planet.
But Rick refers correctly
to certain smaller incidents
where people got
threatened or attacked
by certain other
aggressive, hostile species.
And we definitely see
that the whole system
that we are dealing
with globally today
is something that
has been ridiculously
thought out and
placed here in a way
that it should harass humanity.
>> Where do you believe humanity
will be with a more open
disclosure scenario?
>> We would be a
more open society,
not just here in the United
States but all over the world.
There would be a lot of
discussions opened up
because now we know
and now the humans know
that we've had contact.
>> Right.
>> And of course, you've
got the other side of it.
It's going to be
harmful in some respect
to some segments of society.
>> What do you think, Tim?
>> Well, the biggest milestone
that I personally am thrilled
to manifest and to attract as
fast as possible is the removal
of the so-called travel embargo,
which keeps humans more or less
on this planet.
A very low amount of
people has the opportunity
to go out into space
and see other worlds.
But the whole planet will
eventually go interplanetary
at some time, and that's
when bigger groups
and certain other
people can travel.
And I think the possibility to
explore other species' planets
and especially civilizations,
it will definitely
turn around Earth, and
I'm hoping for that.
And I know there are some plans
for that, and I can't wait.
>> What a great
"Disclosure" episode.
Rick, I want to thank you
for being on the show.
>> Thank you, Emery.
>> And Tim, it's always
a pleasure having you.
>> Thank you, Emery.
>> I'm Emery Smith, and
this is "Cosmic Disclosure."
Until next time.
>> Next, on "Cosmic Disclosure."
>> Some thousands of years ago,
Antarctica wasn't an ice place,
but it was quite Mediterranean.
Potentially the
oldest space port
is said to be found down there.
>> There was a portal--
a time portal in Antarctica--
and the first expedition
that actually found a pyramid
went through that portal
into some other dimension.
[THEME MUSIC]